README.md, before:

# Poker Hand Evaluator

A collection of useful functions for determining the strongest possible hand given a coordination of cards (hole cards & community cards), the strongest effective hand when comparing two hands, and the probability of winning the hand given what cards are known.

## Usage

### Types

The following is a list of significant type definitions defined & utilized by this package.

- `Card`: A 2-character string representing the rank & suit of a card. (e.g.: "2s" for the 10 of spades).
  - Ranks: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, T, J, Q, K, A
  - Suits: c, d, h, s
- `Hand`: An array of cards.
- `EvaluatedHand`: An object representing the effective hand & strength, given a coordination of cards.
- `Strength`: An enumeration of hand strengths.
  - `Strength.ROYAL_FLUSH`
  - `Strength.STRAIGHT_FLUSH`
  - `Strength.FOUR_OF_A_KIND`
  - `Strength.FULL_HOUSE`
  - `Strength.FLUSH`
  - `Strength.STRAIGHT`
  - `Strength.THREE_OF_A_KIND`
  - `Strength.TWO_PAIR`
  - `Strength.ONE_PAIR`
  - `Strength.HIGH_CARD`

### Core Functions

#### `evaluate`

Given a list of hole cards and (optionally) community cards, determine the best possible poker hand and the strength of that hand.

```ts
import { evaluate, Strength } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';

const result = evaluate({
  holeCards: ['As', 'Qd'],
  communityCard: ['Js', 'Kc', 'Td'],
});

console.log(result);
// => { hand: ['As', 'Kc', 'Qd', 'Js', 'Td'], strength: 6 };

console.log(result.strength === Strength.STRAIGHT);
// => true
```

Note that the `evaluate` does not require 5 cards to determine the best hand.  The best hand possible with fewer cards or more cards can be determined as well.

```ts
console.log(evaluate({ holeCards: ['As', 'Ad'] }));
// => { hand: ['As', 'Ad'], strength: 9 };

console.log(evaluate({
  holeCards: ['9s', '8s'],
  communityCards: ['5d', '6d', '6c', '7c', '2h'],
}));
// => { hand: ['9s', '8s', '7c', '6d', '5d'], strength: 6 };
```

By default, the `evaluate` function allows any number of hole cards or community cards to be used when determining the best possible poker hand.  If a specific number of hole cards must be used (e.g.: exactly 2 cards in Omaha or up to 2 cards in Pineapple), then the `minimumHoleCards` and `maximumHoleCards` options can be provided.

```ts
const omahaHand = evaluate({
  holeCards: ['As', 'Kd', 'Td', '2s'],
  communityCards: ['Js', '4s', '3d', '5d', 'Ah'],
  minimumHoleCards: 2,
  maximumHoleCards: 2,
});
console.log(omahaHand);
// => { hand: ['5d', '4s', '3d', '2s', 'As'], strength: 6 }

const pineappleHand = evaluate({
  holeCards: ['Jc', 'Tc', '7d'],
  communityCards: ['9h', '8c', '2d'],
  maximumHoleCards: 2,
});
console.log(pineappleHand);
// => { hand: ['Jc', 'Tc', '9h', '8c', '2d'], strength: 10 }
```

#### `compare`

Given two evaluated hands, returns -1, 0, or 1 to represent the stronger hand.

```ts
import { compare, evaluate } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';

const hand1 = evaluate({ holeCards: ['9s', '8s', '5d', '6d', '6c', '7c', '2h'] });
const hand2 = evaluate({ holeCards: [] });
const result = compare(hand1, hand2);

console.log(result);
// => -1
```

This function can be used to sort any number of hands in an array.

```ts
import { compare, evaluate } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';

const communityCards = ['Qs', 'Js', '7d'];
const result = [
  evaluate({ holeCards: ['As', 'Qd'], communityCards }),
  evaluate({ holeCards: ['Ac', 'Tc'], communityCards }),
  evaluate({ holeCards: ['9s', '8s'], communityCards }),
].sort(compare);
```

#### `simulate` (alias: `oddsAsync`)

Given a list of hands and community cards, estimate how often each hand will win or tie using a [Monte Carlo simulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monte_Carlo_method) for roughly estimating the odds of a hand winning or tying.

```ts
import { Hand, simulate } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';

const hand1: Hand = ['As', 'Ks'];
const hand2: Hand = ['Jd', 'Jh'];

simulate({
  allHoleCards: [hand1, hand2],
  communityCards: ['Qd', 'Js', '8d'],
  expectedCommunityCardCount: 5,
  expectedHoleCardCount: 2,
  minimumHoleCardsUsed: 0,
  maximumHoleCardsUsed: 2,
  samples: 2000,
  samplesPerUpdate: 500,
  callback: (result) => {
    const hand1WinPercent = (result[0].wins / result[0].total * 100).toFixed(1);
    console.log(hand1WinPercent, result);
  },
});

// => "13.8" [{ wins: 69, ties: 0, total: 500 }, { wins: 431, ties: 0, total: 500 }]
// => "13.9" [{ wins: 139, ties: 0, total: 1000 }, { wins: 861, ties: 0, total: 1000 }]
// => "15.4" [{ wins: 231, ties: 0, total: 1500 }, { wins: 1269, ties: 0, total: 1500 }]
// => "14.8" [{ wins: 295, ties: 0, total: 2000 }, { wins: 1705, ties: 0, total: 2000 }]
```

Several options can be provided to specify how long to run the simulation, as well as how many samples should be generated per iteration.  The greater the number of samples, the closer the result should be to the actual calculated value.

- `samples`: The total number of simulations to run.
- `samplesPerUpdate`: The number of simulations to run per iteration.

The `simulate` function returns another function that can be used abort/cancel the simulation.

```ts
const abort = simulate({ /* snip */ });
// later...
abort();
```

```ts
const abort = simulate({
  // snip
  callback: (result) => {
    console.log(result);
    if (result.total >= 10000) {
      abort();
    }
  },
});
```

#### `odds`

Given a list of hands and community cards, determine how often each hand will win or tie.

Note: The implementation for this is exhaustive, and it is not practical for scenarios missing more than about 1-2 cards worth of data.  It is strongly suggested that the [`simulate`](#simulate) function be used instead.

```ts
import { Hand, odds } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';

const hand1: Hand = ['As', 'Ks'];
const hand2: Hand = ['Jd', 'Jh'];

const result = odds([hand1, hand2], {
  communityCards: ['Qd', 'Js', '8d'],
  expectedCommunityCardCount: 5,
  expectedHoleCardCount: 2,
  minimumHoleCardsUsed: 0,
  maximumHoleCardsUsed: 2,
});

console.log(result);
// => [
//      { wins: 149, ties: 0, total: 990 },
//      { wins: 841, ties: 0, total: 990 },
//    ]
```

### Helper Functions

In addition to the core functions, there are some poker game-specific functions that wrap these core functions for ease of use.  These functions are effectively the same as calling the `evaluate` of `odds` function directly with the appropriate option values prepopulated.

The functions also perform appropriate error checking/throwing to ensure that the `holeCards` and `communityCards` are of the correct length for each game.

#### `evaluateHoldem`

Evaluates a hand of Texas Hold'em.

```ts
import { evaluateHoldem } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const hand = evaluateHoldem({
  holeCards: ['As', 'Kd'],
  communityCards: ['9h', '8d', '2c'],
});
```

#### `evaluateOmaha`

Evaluates a hand of Omaha.

```ts
import { evaluateOmaha } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const hand = evaluateOmaha({
  holeCards: ['Jc', 'Qd', '4h', '7c'],
  communityCards: ['2c', 'Qs', '4c'],
});
```

#### `evaluatePineapple`

Evaluates a hand of Pineapple.

```ts
import { evaluatePineapple } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const hand = evaluatePineapple({
  holeCards: ['Jc', '7h', 'Qh'],
  communityCards: ['9h', '8d', '2c', '3h', 'Td'],
});
```

#### `evaluateStud`

Evaluates a hand of Stud.

```ts
import { evaluateStud } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const hand = evaluateStud({ holeCards: ['As', 'Kd', 'Ks', '8s', 'Ac', 'Kh', '4d'] });
```

#### `oddsHoldem`

Calculates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Texas Hold'em.

```ts
import { oddsHoldem } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const allHoleCards = [['As', 'Kd'], ['Ks', '8s']];
const communityCards = ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'];
const result = oddsHoldem(allHoleCards, communityCards);
```

#### `oddsOmaha`

Calculates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Omaha.

```ts
import { oddsOmaha } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const allHoleCards = [['As', 'Kd', 'Td', 'Tc'], ['Ks', '8s', '9h', 'Kc']];
const communityCards = ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'];
const result = oddsOmaha(allHoleCards, communityCards);
```

#### `oddsPineapple`

Calculates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Pineapple.

```ts
import { oddsPineapple } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const allHoleCards = [['As', 'Kd', 'Td'], ['Ks', '8s', 'Kc']];
const communityCards = ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'];
const result = oddsPineapple(allHoleCards, communityCards);
```

#### `oddsStud`

Calculates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Stud.

```ts
import { oddsStud } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const allHoleCards = [
  ['As', 'Kd', 'Ks', '8s', 'Ac'],
  ['9s', '8s', 'Ts', '6s', '4h'],
];
const result = oddsStud(allHoleCards);
```

#### `simulateHoldem` (alias: `oddsHoldemAsync`)

Estimates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Texas Hold'em.

```ts
import { simulateHoldem } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const abort = simulateHoldem({
  allHoleCards: [['As', 'Kd'], ['Ks', '8s']],
  communityCards: ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'],
  callback: (result) => console.log(result),
});
```

#### `simulateOmaha` (alias: `oddsOmahaAsync`)

Estimates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Omaha.

```ts
import { simulateOmaha } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const abort = simulateOmaha({
  allHoleCards: [['As', 'Kd', 'Td', 'Tc'], ['Ks', '8s', '9h', 'Kc']],
  communityCards: ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'],
  callback: (result) => console.log(result),
});
```

#### `simulatePineapple` (alias: `oddsPineappleAsync`)

Estimates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Pineapple.

```ts
import { simulatePineapple } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const abort = simulatePineapple({
  allHoleCards: [['As', 'Kd', 'Td'], ['Ks', '8s', 'Kc']],
  communityCards: ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'],
  callback: (result) => console.log(result),
});
```

#### `simulateStud` (alias: `oddsStudAsync`)

Estimates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Stud.

```ts
import { simulateStud } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const abort = simulateStud({
  allHoleCards: [
    ['As', 'Kd', 'Ks', '8s', 'Ac'],
    ['9s', '8s', 'Ts', '6s', '4h'],
  ],
  callback: (result) => console.log(result),
});
```

## Development

Contributions are welcome.  Please create an issue in the project first to discuss any possible enhancements, bugs, or other changes prior to submitting a pull request.  Alternatively, browse existing issues if interested in providing a fix.

### Environment Setup

1. Install [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/) and [git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git).
2. Clone this repository: `git clone git@github.com:poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator.git`
3. Install dependencies: `yarn install`

### Run tests

To run the full test suite:

```
yarn test
```

To run a specific test:

```
yarn test compare.test.ts           # matches test file name
yarn test -t "compare"              # matches test name/description
```

To run tests and run profiler:

```
yarn test:profile                   # runs full test suite
yarn test:profile compare.test.ts   # matches test file name
yarn test:profile -t "compare"      # matches test name/description
```

This will create one `.cpuprofile` file per test under the `profiles/` folder.  To open these files in Google Chrome:

1. Navigate to [chrome://inspect].
2. Click "Open dedicated DevTools for Node".
3. Select the "Profiler" tab.
4. Click the "Load" button, and select your file.

To remove old `.cpuprofile` files:

```
yarn test:profile:clean
```

### Run linter

```
yarn lint
```

### Run formatter

```
yarn format
```

### Build package

```
yarn build
```

Commit message:

chore: disable profiling until node v20 is supported

README.md, after:

# Poker Hand Evaluator

A collection of useful functions for determining the strongest possible hand given a coordination of cards (hole cards & community cards), the strongest effective hand when comparing two hands, and the probability of winning the hand given what cards are known.

## Usage

### Types

The following is a list of significant type definitions defined & utilized by this package.

- `Card`: A 2-character string representing the rank & suit of a card. (e.g.: "2s" for the 10 of spades).
  - Ranks: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, T, J, Q, K, A
  - Suits: c, d, h, s
- `Hand`: An array of cards.
- `EvaluatedHand`: An object representing the effective hand & strength, given a coordination of cards.
- `Strength`: An enumeration of hand strengths.
  - `Strength.ROYAL_FLUSH`
  - `Strength.STRAIGHT_FLUSH`
  - `Strength.FOUR_OF_A_KIND`
  - `Strength.FULL_HOUSE`
  - `Strength.FLUSH`
  - `Strength.STRAIGHT`
  - `Strength.THREE_OF_A_KIND`
  - `Strength.TWO_PAIR`
  - `Strength.ONE_PAIR`
  - `Strength.HIGH_CARD`

### Core Functions

#### `evaluate`

Given a list of hole cards and (optionally) community cards, determine the best possible poker hand and the strength of that hand.

```ts
import { evaluate, Strength } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';

const result = evaluate({
  holeCards: ['As', 'Qd'],
  communityCard: ['Js', 'Kc', 'Td'],
});

console.log(result);
// => { hand: ['As', 'Kc', 'Qd', 'Js', 'Td'], strength: 6 };

console.log(result.strength === Strength.STRAIGHT);
// => true
```

Note that the `evaluate` does not require 5 cards to determine the best hand.  The best hand possible with fewer cards or more cards can be determined as well.

```ts
console.log(evaluate({ holeCards: ['As', 'Ad'] }));
// => { hand: ['As', 'Ad'], strength: 9 };

console.log(evaluate({
  holeCards: ['9s', '8s'],
  communityCards: ['5d', '6d', '6c', '7c', '2h'],
}));
// => { hand: ['9s', '8s', '7c', '6d', '5d'], strength: 6 };
```

By default, the `evaluate` function allows any number of hole cards or community cards to be used when determining the best possible poker hand.  If a specific number of hole cards must be used (e.g.: exactly 2 cards in Omaha or up to 2 cards in Pineapple), then the `minimumHoleCards` and `maximumHoleCards` options can be provided.

```ts
const omahaHand = evaluate({
  holeCards: ['As', 'Kd', 'Td', '2s'],
  communityCards: ['Js', '4s', '3d', '5d', 'Ah'],
  minimumHoleCards: 2,
  maximumHoleCards: 2,
});
console.log(omahaHand);
// => { hand: ['5d', '4s', '3d', '2s', 'As'], strength: 6 }

const pineappleHand = evaluate({
  holeCards: ['Jc', 'Tc', '7d'],
  communityCards: ['9h', '8c', '2d'],
  maximumHoleCards: 2,
});
console.log(pineappleHand);
// => { hand: ['Jc', 'Tc', '9h', '8c', '2d'], strength: 10 }
```

#### `compare`

Given two evaluated hands, returns -1, 0, or 1 to represent the stronger hand.

```ts
import { compare, evaluate } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';

const hand1 = evaluate({ holeCards: ['9s', '8s', '5d', '6d', '6c', '7c', '2h'] });
const hand2 = evaluate({ holeCards: [] });
const result = compare(hand1, hand2);

console.log(result);
// => -1
```

This function can be used to sort any number of hands in an array.

```ts
import { compare, evaluate } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';

const communityCards = ['Qs', 'Js', '7d'];
const result = [
  evaluate({ holeCards: ['As', 'Qd'], communityCards }),
  evaluate({ holeCards: ['Ac', 'Tc'], communityCards }),
  evaluate({ holeCards: ['9s', '8s'], communityCards }),
].sort(compare);
```

#### `simulate` (alias: `oddsAsync`)

Given a list of hands and community cards, estimate how often each hand will win or tie using a [Monte Carlo simulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monte_Carlo_method) for roughly estimating the odds of a hand winning or tying.

```ts
import { Hand, simulate } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';

const hand1: Hand = ['As', 'Ks'];
const hand2: Hand = ['Jd', 'Jh'];

simulate({
  allHoleCards: [hand1, hand2],
  communityCards: ['Qd', 'Js', '8d'],
  expectedCommunityCardCount: 5,
  expectedHoleCardCount: 2,
  minimumHoleCardsUsed: 0,
  maximumHoleCardsUsed: 2,
  samples: 2000,
  samplesPerUpdate: 500,
  callback: (result) => {
    const hand1WinPercent = (result[0].wins / result[0].total * 100).toFixed(1);
    console.log(hand1WinPercent, result);
  },
});

// => "13.8" [{ wins: 69, ties: 0, total: 500 }, { wins: 431, ties: 0, total: 500 }]
// => "13.9" [{ wins: 139, ties: 0, total: 1000 }, { wins: 861, ties: 0, total: 1000 }]
// => "15.4" [{ wins: 231, ties: 0, total: 1500 }, { wins: 1269, ties: 0, total: 1500 }]
// => "14.8" [{ wins: 295, ties: 0, total: 2000 }, { wins: 1705, ties: 0, total: 2000 }]
```

Several options can be provided to specify how long to run the simulation, as well as how many samples should be generated per iteration.  The greater the number of samples, the closer the result should be to the actual calculated value.

- `samples`: The total number of simulations to run.
- `samplesPerUpdate`: The number of simulations to run per iteration.

The `simulate` function returns another function that can be used abort/cancel the simulation.

```ts
const abort = simulate({ /* snip */ });
// later...
abort();
```

```ts
const abort = simulate({
  // snip
  callback: (result) => {
    console.log(result);
    if (result.total >= 10000) {
      abort();
    }
  },
});
```

#### `odds`

Given a list of hands and community cards, determine how often each hand will win or tie.

Note: The implementation for this is exhaustive, and it is not practical for scenarios missing more than about 1-2 cards worth of data.  It is strongly suggested that the [`simulate`](#simulate) function be used instead.

```ts
import { Hand, odds } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';

const hand1: Hand = ['As', 'Ks'];
const hand2: Hand = ['Jd', 'Jh'];

const result = odds([hand1, hand2], {
  communityCards: ['Qd', 'Js', '8d'],
  expectedCommunityCardCount: 5,
  expectedHoleCardCount: 2,
  minimumHoleCardsUsed: 0,
  maximumHoleCardsUsed: 2,
});

console.log(result);
// => [
//      { wins: 149, ties: 0, total: 990 },
//      { wins: 841, ties: 0, total: 990 },
//    ]
```

### Helper Functions

In addition to the core functions, there are some poker game-specific functions that wrap these core functions for ease of use.  These functions are effectively the same as calling the `evaluate` of `odds` function directly with the appropriate option values prepopulated.

The functions also perform appropriate error checking/throwing to ensure that the `holeCards` and `communityCards` are of the correct length for each game.

#### `evaluateHoldem`

Evaluates a hand of Texas Hold'em.

```ts
import { evaluateHoldem } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const hand = evaluateHoldem({
  holeCards: ['As', 'Kd'],
  communityCards: ['9h', '8d', '2c'],
});
```

#### `evaluateOmaha`

Evaluates a hand of Omaha.

```ts
import { evaluateOmaha } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const hand = evaluateOmaha({
  holeCards: ['Jc', 'Qd', '4h', '7c'],
  communityCards: ['2c', 'Qs', '4c'],
});
```

#### `evaluatePineapple`

Evaluates a hand of Pineapple.

```ts
import { evaluatePineapple } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const hand = evaluatePineapple({
  holeCards: ['Jc', '7h', 'Qh'],
  communityCards: ['9h', '8d', '2c', '3h', 'Td'],
});
```

#### `evaluateStud`

Evaluates a hand of Stud.

```ts
import { evaluateStud } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const hand = evaluateStud({ holeCards: ['As', 'Kd', 'Ks', '8s', 'Ac', 'Kh', '4d'] });
```

#### `oddsHoldem`

Calculates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Texas Hold'em.

```ts
import { oddsHoldem } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const allHoleCards = [['As', 'Kd'], ['Ks', '8s']];
const communityCards = ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'];
const result = oddsHoldem(allHoleCards, communityCards);
```

#### `oddsOmaha`

Calculates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Omaha.

```ts
import { oddsOmaha } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const allHoleCards = [['As', 'Kd', 'Td', 'Tc'], ['Ks', '8s', '9h', 'Kc']];
const communityCards = ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'];
const result = oddsOmaha(allHoleCards, communityCards);
```

#### `oddsPineapple`

Calculates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Pineapple.

```ts
import { oddsPineapple } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const allHoleCards = [['As', 'Kd', 'Td'], ['Ks', '8s', 'Kc']];
const communityCards = ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'];
const result = oddsPineapple(allHoleCards, communityCards);
```

#### `oddsStud`

Calculates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Stud.

```ts
import { oddsStud } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const allHoleCards = [
  ['As', 'Kd', 'Ks', '8s', 'Ac'],
  ['9s', '8s', 'Ts', '6s', '4h'],
];
const result = oddsStud(allHoleCards);
```

#### `simulateHoldem` (alias: `oddsHoldemAsync`)

Estimates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Texas Hold'em.

```ts
import { simulateHoldem } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const abort = simulateHoldem({
  allHoleCards: [['As', 'Kd'], ['Ks', '8s']],
  communityCards: ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'],
  callback: (result) => console.log(result),
});
```

#### `simulateOmaha` (alias: `oddsOmahaAsync`)

Estimates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Omaha.

```ts
import { simulateOmaha } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const abort = simulateOmaha({
  allHoleCards: [['As', 'Kd', 'Td', 'Tc'], ['Ks', '8s', '9h', 'Kc']],
  communityCards: ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'],
  callback: (result) => console.log(result),
});
```

#### `simulatePineapple` (alias: `oddsPineappleAsync`)

Estimates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Pineapple.

```ts
import { simulatePineapple } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const abort = simulatePineapple({
  allHoleCards: [['As', 'Kd', 'Td'], ['Ks', '8s', 'Kc']],
  communityCards: ['Ts', 'Qs', 'Jd'],
  callback: (result) => console.log(result),
});
```

#### `simulateStud` (alias: `oddsStudAsync`)

Estimates the odds of winning or tying a hand of Stud.

```ts
import { simulateStud } from '@poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator';
const abort = simulateStud({
  allHoleCards: [
    ['As', 'Kd', 'Ks', '8s', 'Ac'],
    ['9s', '8s', 'Ts', '6s', '4h'],
  ],
  callback: (result) => console.log(result),
});
```

## Development

Contributions are welcome.  Please create an issue in the project first to discuss any possible enhancements, bugs, or other changes prior to submitting a pull request.  Alternatively, browse existing issues if interested in providing a fix.

### Environment Setup

1. Install [yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/) and [git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git).
2. Clone this repository: `git clone git@github.com:poker-apprentice/hand-evaluator.git`
3. Install dependencies: `yarn install`

### Run tests

To run the full test suite:

```
yarn test
```

To run a specific test:

```
yarn test compare.test.ts           # matches test file name
yarn test -t "compare"              # matches test name/description
```

**NOTE:** Profiling is disabled until Node v20 is supported, per [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/hyj1991/v8-profiler-next/issues/65).

To run tests and run profiler:

```
yarn test:profile                   # runs full test suite
yarn test:profile compare.test.ts   # matches test file name
yarn test:profile -t "compare"      # matches test name/description
```

This will create one `.cpuprofile` file per test under the `profiles/` folder.  To open these files in Google Chrome:

1. Navigate to [chrome://inspect].
2. Click "Open dedicated DevTools for Node".
3. Select the "Profiler" tab.
4. Click the "Load" button, and select your file.

To remove old `.cpuprofile` files:

```
yarn clean
```

### Run linter

```
yarn lint
```

### Run formatter

```
yarn format
```

### Build package

```
yarn build
```
